This quote is just perfect.
"The palest ink is better than the best memory, " an old Chinese proverb.
If you don't capture the discussions and put it into a
form that can be easily retrieved, read,
and understood later, the outcomes and the agreements can be lost,
hence losing valuable project time.
You know, you're really documenting history,
what really happened, and you're doing it as you see and interpret it and again,
that is very, very powerful.
But you always document it in an honest and ethical way and your
projects will stay on track and move forward successfully.
Here is how you manage the meeting outcome.
Basically, you're taking notes.
Okay, here is what you've got to do.
So you will take notes, period, always good clear notes,
or you'll have someone in there supporting you,
taking those notes.
Use paper, pen, or laptop or whatever works for you.
Use your agenda as a template and fill in the blanks with your notes.
In other words, you're going to have an agenda item.
Someone is going to speak or talk about at topic and take notes in
that gap between that and the next list item.
So sometimes I have an agenda that gets sent out and then I take the
agenda and that extra space after each list item,
so I have room to either write in pencil or on the laptop to take notes.
Document action items for each topic on the agenda.
Who, what needs to be done, and the due date,
or no action if there is no action.
Document agreements.
Document all decisions made and their rationale.
Sometimes we make decisions and we kind of forget,
why did we do that, and then you have to have another meeting to rehash.
Document issues.
What are the issues facing the team?
Some will get assigned as action items and some may just
be on the list for the next meeting.
And then you want to validate the next meeting.
Make sure the date and time and location are good for the
team so you can maximize attendance.
Okay, here's a tip.
Famous last words: I don't need to write that down, I will remember it.
So you as a meeting leader always need to write everything down.
Hopefully other attendees are also writing things down,
but you are responsible to write everything down as I have listed above.
Okay, now let's send out the meeting minutes.
Okay, now let's send out those meeting notes.
It is critical that you send out meeting notes as soon as possible,
within a few hours if you can, and no more than the next day,
while things are still fresh,
not only in your mind but the attendees' minds as well.
Use your agenda as the template and fill in the blank so it is easy to
add the notes to an existing electronic template.
You can send out as a text in the body of the email,
your notes, and that would be fine,
or send out as an attached document if you want.
Also,
you may have other documents that came up in the meeting and
you'll want to attach those to the email as well.
And then if there is another meeting, send out the next meeting request.
Okay, here's a tip.
I think it's more likely for people to read your meeting notes if they are
in the body of the email rather than the attachment.
If it's an attachment,
then there is one more thing to look at and click on and open up and it might
be just that one extra step they don't feel like taking.
So I typically like my meeting notes to be actually in the
body of the email and then I attach any more details to the
email as just simple attachments.
Okay, here is one final quote for this section.
So before I jump right into this quote, let's do a really quick recap.
We've planned, we've prepared, we've built the agenda,
we sent a meeting notice out, we conducted the meeting,
we took meeting notes, we sent out meeting notes.
We've done a lot of work and why have done all that work?
Meetings at work present great opportunities to showcase
your talent; do not let them go to waste.
So often we are cracking away at our office or cube and may not have had
much exposure to other employees in the office or business.
Now that you are the leader of your team and responsible for your team members,
it is your job to showcase your team, its accomplishments,
its ability to contribute to meeting agendas,
and their action items.
It's important to show that your team makes a difference
to the company and its bottom line. Okay, now let's move on to the next section on status reports.